Hi friends
In this video let us learn about the Input Output Unit and the memory unit.
In the previous video we have learned about the basic components of a computer
First we will learn about the input unit.
The main purpose of this input unit is to get the data from the user
the computer uses various input devices to receive the data from the user.
The input device is any hardware device that
allows us to communicate with the computer by sending the data.
The keyboard ,the mouse are some examples of input devices
which allows  us to communicate with the computer.
And the user can give data using such input devices
and this input received from the user will be stored in the memory unit .
So that was the input unit.
Now let us understand the output unit.
The main purpose of this output unit
is to display the processed useful information to the user .
Computer uses various output devices to display the information.
An output device is any hardware that receives information
from the computer and displays it to the user.
These are some of the output devices.
Monitor, printer, speaker etc.
So that was I/O unit or input and output unit
So after getting the input from the user,
it will be stored in memory and then it will be processed.
The processed useful information is again sent to memory
and from memory that information will be displayed via output devices
Now let us discuss about the memory unit.
The purpose of this unit is to store data or information.
There are two major types of memory available.
The Random Access Memory - RAM and the Read Only Memory - ROM
First we will discuss about RAM
The random access memory or RAM is used to store temporary information.
For example, while computing big calculations,
the temporary details will be stored in RAM
It is also known as volatile memory.
Because for any reason, if the power supply to the computer is lost,
we will lose all the data stored in the RAM.
And there are different types of RAM also available.
Such as the static RAM or SRAM
and the dynamic RAM or DRAM
and the Synchronous Dynamic RAM or SDRAM
Now let us discuss about the second type memory - ROM
So the Read Only Memory is used to store permanent information.
It is a non volatile memory.
That means even if the power is turned off,
the information will reside in the memory.
For example, the operating system booting information,
the audio files, video files, etc will be stored in the ROM section
and we can access this information whenever we want.
And there are different types of ROM also available
such as PROM or programmable read only memory
EPROM or Erasable & Programmable Read Only Memory
EEPROM or Electrically Erasable and Programmable Read Only Memory etc.
So today we learned about the I/O unit and the memory unit
So simply the input unit will take data from the user,
store it in memory
and then it is sent to  processing unit
and the processed information is sent back to memory.
From there, the output unit will take it and give the output to user
So that's all for this video
And in the next video we will learn about the functionality of central processing unit and its components.